High level Summary

You will submit:
1. Lab 1: GitHub repo link (repo must contain the following):
a. A nested directory for each group member
b. Each directory should have its own README.md

Technical Requirements
Repository Setup
● Create a brand-new GitHub repository from scratch (no templates).
● Repository must include:
○ .README.md
○ .gitignore (appropriate for Python)
○ At least 2 Python files (.py) per student


Each team member must:
1. Clone the repository locally
2. Create their own Git branch
  ○ Naming convention (recommended):
feature/<firstname>-function

3. Write at least two Python files with the following code concepts
implemented
 ○ Static and dynamic variables
 ○ User input
 ○ File creation
 ○ Conditional Logic

4. Commit their work to their branch
 1. Make sure you’re on your feature branch

   git checkout feature/chris-function

5. Push their branch to GitHub
  
 1. Stage and commit your changes
  git add .
  git commit -m "Describe the changes you made"

 2. Push your branch to the remote repository
   git push -u origin feature/chris-function

4. Create a Pull Request (PR) into main

Go to your repository on GitHub (or GitLab/Bitbucket).
You’ll usually see a prompt like "Compare & pull request" for your branch.
Click it, review the changes, add a descriptive title and summary.
Set the base branch to main and the compare branch to your feature branch.
Submit the pull request.
5. Review and merge

Wait for code review and approvals (if required).
Once approved, click Merge pull request (you can choose merge, squash, or rebase depending on your workflow).
Confirm the merge.
6. Clean up (optional but recommended)

Bash

Copy code
git branch -d my-feature-branch        # delete locally
git push origin --delete my-feature-branch  # delete remotely
💡 Tip: If main has new changes before you merge, you might want to update your feature branch first:

Bash

Copy code
git checkout my-feature-branch
git fetch origin
git merge origin/main   # or: git rebase origin/main
If you’d like, I can also give you a one-command shortcut workflow so you can push and open a PR in seconds. Would you like me to prepare that?



6. Open a Pull Request (PR)

7. Participate in resolving merge conflicts (if any)
No one should push directly to main except through Pull Requests.



Creating a Branch Using Command Line

Clone the Repository: If you haven't already, clone the repository to your local machine using the command:

git clone <repository-url>
Copy
Navigate to the Repository Directory: Change to the repository directory using the cd command:

cd <repository-directory>
Copy
Create a New Branch: Use the git checkout command to create and switch to a new branch:

git checkout -b <your-new-branch-name>
Copy
Push the Branch to GitHub: Push the new branch to the remote repository using:

git push origin <your-new-branch-name>



#clone repo and change to repo directory

git clone https://github.com/cjjamieson1983/Capstone_project
cd capstone


#Create and Switch to the new branch

git checkout -b feature/chris-function

# create/edit files

Python Files
Variable for Current Date
Car Database
Request Make, Model, Registration Date 
Condidtional = If age is greater than two years past the current Date
Return = Registration expired



git add .
git commit -m "Added app functions"
git push -u origin feature/chris-function


1.Create repo
2.Commit README and .gitignore to main
3.Create feature/chris-function
4.Add your Python files
5.Push branch
6.Open PR
7.Merge PR into main


Round 2
